DOC-7652: Document how to manage channels via the System Console (#7654)
mattermost/docs: source/configure/user-management-configuration-settings.rst

 <p class="mm-label-note">Also available in legacy Mattermost Enterprise Edition E20</p>

Find Channels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can find existing channels in your Mattermost instance using the System Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find existing channels in your Mattermost instance using the System Console.
```

 <p class="mm-label-note">Also available in legacy Mattermost Enterprise Edition E20</p>

Find Channels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can find a channel using the System Console.

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.
2. Type the name of the channel in the **Search** box to find the particular channel, if it exists.

.. image:: ../images/find-channels.png
  :alt: Find a Mattermost channel using the System Console.

Filter channel searches
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can filter System Console channel search to narrow down results based on the channel types (Public, Private or Archived), channel management types (Group Sync or Manual Invites) or the team that they belong to.

Author: Changes applied. Thanks.

2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.
3. In the **Create Posts** section under **Advanced Access Control** tab, tick the checkbox for either **Guests** or **Members** or both to enable those users to post in the channel.
4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

.. image:: ../images/allow-create-posts-for-a-channel.png
  :alt: Add Members and Guests to post to the channel using the System Console.

Post Reactions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The ability for members and guests to post reactions.

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.
2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.
3. In the **Create Posts** section under **Advanced Access Control** tab, tick the checkbox for either **Guests** or **Members** or both to enable those users to post reactions in the channel.
4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

.. image:: ../images/allow-post-reactions-for-a-channel.png
  :alt: Add Members and Guests to post reactions to the channel using the System Console.

Manage Members
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The ability for members to add and remove people.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability for members to add and remove people from the channels. Guests can't add or remove people from channels.
```

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.

> 2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select a channel from the list to view its configuration page.
```

3. In the **Manage Members** section under **Advanced Access Control** tab, tick the checkbox for **Members** to enable those users to manage members for the channel.

> 4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save**.
```

.. image:: ../images/allow-manage-members-for-a-channel.png
  :alt: Add Members to post reactions to the channel using the System Console.

.. tip::                                                                                                                                                                
  - The ability to manage members for the channel is available for **Members** only. **Guests** can't add or remove members from the channel.

Channel Mentions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The ability for members and guests to use **@all**, **@here** and **@channel**.

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.
2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.
3. In the **Channel Mentions** section under **Advanced Access Control** tab, tick the checkbox for either **Guests** or **Members** or both to enable those users to use the available channel mentions.

> 4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save**.
```

.. image:: ../images/allow-mentions-for-a-channel.png
  :alt: Add Members and Guests to use mentions in a channel using the System Console.

.. tip::                                                                                                                                                                

>   - **Guests** and **Members** can not use channel mentions without the ability to **Create Posts**. To enable this permission, these users must have been granted **Create Posts** permission first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Guests** and **Members** can't use channel mentions without the ability to **Create Posts**. To enable this permission, these users must have been granted **Create Posts** permission first.
```

Manage Bookmarks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The ability for members and guests to add, delete and sort bookmarks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability for members to add, delete, and sort bookmarks. Guests can't add, remove, or sort bookmarks for the channel.
```

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.

> 2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the channel from the list to view its configuration page.
```

> 3. In the **Manage Bookmarks** section under **Advanced Access Control** tab, tick the checkbox for **Members** to enable those users to add, sort or remove bookmarks for the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Manage Bookmarks** section under the **Advanced Access Control** tab, select **Members** to enable those users to add, sort, or remove bookmarks for the channel.
```

> 4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save**.
```

.. image:: ../images/allow-manage-bookmarks-for-a-channel.png
  :alt: Add Members to manage bookmarks for the channel using the System Console.

.. tip::                                                                                                                                                                

>   - The ability to manage bookmarks for the channel is available for **Members** only. **Guests** can't add, remove or sort bookmarks for the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The ability to manage bookmarks for the channel is available for **Members** only. **Guests** can't add, remove or sort bookmarks for the channel.
```

> .. tip::                                                                                                                                                                
>   - The ability to manage bookmarks for the channel is available for **Members** only. **Guests** can't add, remove or sort bookmarks for the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Channel Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Choose between inviting members manually or syncing members automatically from groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose between inviting members manually or sychronizing members automatically from groups.
```

Sync Group Members
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
When enabled, adding and removing users from groups will add or remove them from this team. The only way of inviting members to this team is by adding the groups they belong to. See the :ref:`Synchronize teams and channels <onboard/ad-ldap-groups-synchronization:synchronize teams and channels>` documentation for further details.

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.

> 2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the channel from the list to view its configuration page.
```

3. In the **Channel Management** tab, enable the **Sync Group Members** option.

> 4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save**.
```

.. image:: ../images/sync-group-members-in-a-channel.png
  :alt: Enable Sync Group Members for a channel using the System Console.

Public channel or private channel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If `public` the channel is discoverable and any user can join, or if `private` invitations are required to join the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public channels are discoverable and any user can join. Private channels require invitations to join.
```

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.

> 2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the channel from the list to view its configuration page.
```

> 3. In the **Public channel or private channel** section under **Channel Management** tab, toggle between **Public** or **Private** to change the channel visibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Public channel or private channel** section under the **Channel Management** tab, toggle between **Public** or **Private** to change channel visibility.
```

> 4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save**.
```

.. image:: ../images/set-a-channel-to-public-or-private.png
  :alt: Set the channel visibility to either Public or Private using the System Console.

.. tip::                                                                                                                                                                
  -  When Group Sync is enabled, private channels cannot be converted to public.

Members
~~~~~~~

Choose between inviting members manually or syncing members automatically from groups.

Add members
^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.
2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.
3. In the **Members** section, tap on **Add Members**.
4. Use the **Search** box to find a specific user or group to add to the channel.

> 5. Click on **Add** to add the user or group as a **Member**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select **Add** to add the user or group as a **Member**.
```

6. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

.. image:: ../images/add-members-to-a-channel.png
  :alt: Add a member to the channel using the System Console.

Remove members
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.

> 2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the channel from the list to view its configuration page.
```

> 3. In the **Members** section, tap on **Remove** for the user that you want to remove.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Members** section, select **Remove** for the user that you want to remove.
```

> 4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save**.
```

.. image:: ../images/remove-members-from-a-channel.png
  :alt: Remove a member from the channel using the System Console.

Archive a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > Channels** to access all available channels.

> 2. Select the channel from the list and tap on it to view its configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the channel from the list to view its configuration page.
```

> 3. In the **Channel Profile** section, tap on **Archive Channel**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Channel Profile** section, select **Archive Channel**.
```

> 4. Click on **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save**.
```

.. image:: ../images/archive-a-channel.png
  :alt: Archive a channel using the System Console.

.. tip::                                                                                                                                                                

>   - Channels can be deleted with all content, including posts in the database, using the :ref:`mmctl channel delete <manage/mmctl-command-line-tool:mmctl channel delete>` tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Channels can be deleted with all content, including posts in the database, using the :ref:`mmctl channel delete <manage/mmctl-command-line-tool:mmctl channel delete>` command.
```
